# Save-and-get-data-local-data-using-room-database-android-studio
Room persistence library allows you to perform, create, read, update, and delete operations the same way you would in SQLite API easily. This Room allows fluent database access while harnessing the full power of SQLite and helps you create a cache of your app’s data on a device that’s running your app. There are three major components in Room that are Database, Entity, and DAO. Watch the tutorial to learn how to implement your local database in Android Studio using the Room persistence library. Follow the steps to know How to Save and get Data local data using Room Database in the android studio:- 1. Create a New android studio project and add Room Database library to your project. 2. Now create a new Java file called User.java and Add the import declaration. 3. Creating a very simple table that consists of UID, Name, and Timestamp. 4. Add the variables like primary key, auto-generate, and column info. 5. Create another file called UserDao.java. Change the class into an interface and add and run the code. 6. Now Create a new file called AppDatabase.java and add the import declaration. 7. Now Create a variable as an instance and initialize the ExecutorService with the number of threads. 8. Create a static function that returns the instance and add the databaseBuilder statement to initialize the database. 9. Now Inside the MainActivity class and get the singleton instance of AppDatabase and call the appropriate functions. 10. Now call the execute function and pass a Runnable object.
